The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Cats walk on their toes.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
Female felines are \superfecund
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Female felines are \superfecund
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
